PD-250   CLI Guide: Document Service namespaces (#1997)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALECLIReference/Service/_index.md

{{< expand "Running a Simple Query" "v" >}}
The `query` command has no additional requirements. After entering the command, it returns a table with multiple outputs.

From the CLI prompt, enter:

<code>service query</code>

From the **service** prompt, enter:

<code>query</code>

{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
service> query
+----+-------------+--------+---------+--------------+
| id | service     | enable | state   | pids         |
+----+-------------+--------+---------+--------------+
| 4  | cifs        | false  | STOPPED | <empty list> |
| 6  | ftp         | false  | STOPPED | <empty list> |
| 7  | iscsitarget | false  | STOPPED | <empty list> |
| 9  | nfs         | false  | STOPPED | <empty list> |
| 10 | snmp        | false  | STOPPED | <empty list> |
| 11 | ssh         | false  | STOPPED | 98638        |
| 14 | ups         | false  | STOPPED | <empty list> |
| 18 | smartd      | false  | STOPPED | 3079         |
| 26 | glusterd    | false  | STOPPED | <empty list> |
+----+-------------+--------+---------+--------------+
```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Reload Command

The `reload` command reloads a specified service.

> *Possible states:*

Reviewer: suggest moving this table to line 101 and bump the command examples down.

{{< truetable >}}
| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `true` | Indicates the service reloaded. |
| `false`| Indicates the service did not reload. |
{{< /truetable >}}

{{< expand "Reloading a Service" "v" >}}
The `reload` command requires you to include the `service` option in the command string. After entering the command correctly, it returns either a true or false output.

From the CLI prompt, enter:

<code>service reload service=<i>name</i></code>

From the **service** prompt, enter:

<code>reload service=<i>name</i></code>

Where:
* `name` is the service name. For example, enter ssh for the ssh service.

{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
reload service=ssh
true

```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Restart Command

The `restart` command restarts a specified service.

> *Possible returns:*

Reviewer: suggest moving this table down to line 139 and bumping the command exampled down.

{{< truetable >}}
| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `true` | The service restarted successfully. |
| `false`| The service did not restart. |
{{< /truetable >}}

{{< expand "Restarting a Service" "v" >}}
The `restart` command requires you to include the `service` option in the command string. After entering the command correctly, it returns either a true or false output.

From the CLI prompt, enter:

<code>service restart service=<i>name</i></code>

From the **service** prompt, enter:

<code>restart service=<i>name</i></code>

Where:
* `name` is the service name. For example, enter ssh for the ssh service.

{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
restart service=ssh
true

```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Start Command

The `start` command restarts a specified service.

> *Possible returns:*

Reviewer: same comment as above and for any other command with this type of table. It is better placed with the details about the command in the expand.

```
start service=ssh
true

```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Started Command

The `started` command verifies whether or not a `start` command succeeded for a specified service.

*Possible returns:*
{{< truetable >}}
| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `true` | The service started successfully. |
| `false`| The service did not start. |
{{< /truetable >}}

{{< expand "Verifying a Service Started" "v" >}}
The `started` command requires you to include the `service` option in the command string. After entering the command correctly, it returns either a true or false output.

From the CLI prompt, enter:

<code>service started service=<i>name</i></code>

From the **service** prompt, enter:

<code>started service=<i>name</i></code>

Where:
* `name` is the service name. For example, enter ssh for the ssh service.

{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
started service=ssh
true

```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Started_or_Enabled Command

The `started_or_enabled` command displays whether or not a service will start automatically upon reboot or is running.

*Possible returns:*
{{< truetable >}}
| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|

> | `true` | The service will restart automatically and/or is running. |

Reviewer: change to active voice, present tense
```suggestion
| `true` | The service restarts automatically and/or is running. |
```

From the **service** prompt, enter:

<code>started_or_enabled service=<i>name</i></code>

Where:
* `name` is the service name. For example, enter ssh for the ssh service.

{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
started_or_enabled service=ssh
true

```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Stop Command

The `start` command restarts a specified service.

*Possible returns:*
{{< truetable >}}
| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `false`| The service stopped or is not running. |
{{< /truetable >}}

{{< expand "Stopping a Service" "v" >}}
The `stop` command requires you to include the `service` option in the command string. After entering the command correctly, it returns either a true or false output.

From the CLI prompt, enter:

<code>service stop service=<i>name</i></code>

From the **service** prompt, enter:

<code>stop service=<i>name</i></code>

Where:
* `name` is the service name. For example, enter ssh for the ssh service.

{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
stop service=ssh
false

```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Terminate_Process Command

The `terminate_process` command forces a service to stop and disables it.

> *Possible returns:*

Reviewer: a table is non necessary for one possible result. just make it a sentence. and move this to the details section in the expand.
